Your extra dango.
And your apricot-seed jelly.
Th-Thank you for waiting!
If Granny's right...
and the people I meet are my treasures...
Welcome!
then that meeting must have been...
the greatest treasure of my life.
Blue Miburo
Water.
Please, water.
A-Are you all right?
You need water? Coming right up.
Another!
He wants another.
Gimme a break!
Here you go.
Is this a dango shop?
Yes, and a good one.
You came in here not knowing that?
I suddenly feel peckish.
Okay. There's your seat.
No, I want to sit in the back.
Hey, don't be so picky.
I'm sorry.
We haven't cleared that table yet.
No, no, no! I only want to sit there!
Who the hell do you think you are?
You rich kids are all spoiled brats.
Taro! That's a customer!
Yes, ma'am!
Taro!
Bring me tea.
You don't get to call me "Taro"!
Anko
Isobe
Mitarashi
Kinako
We serve four types of dango,
as well as tricolor dango.
Really? I'll take them all.
Huh?
I've got quite a sweet tooth.
I'll eat the lot.
It hurts! My tooth hurts!
I forgot about my cavity!
Have some tea.
Nio! Don't humor him!
Hey, just so we're clear,
you do have money, right?
Money?
Nope. Put it on my tab.
What?
We've got a runner!
You're not going anywhere.
Hajime, guard that door!
I don't take orders from you.
Um, excuse me for asking,
but did you hurt your left hand?
I merely bumped it. No need to fuss.
W-Welcome to the Chirinuya. Please come in.
"Nio," was it? Flee.
Huh?
Who is this guy? He's dressed all in white.
Leave this place at once.
No way. Is he going to
swing that thing in here?
He's serious.
Nio!
Brat.
Run for it, everybody!
Hajime!
I've got his sword!
You lose.
Who are you?
We're Miburo.
We keep this city safe.
I see.
Y-You want some more?
H-He left?
Who does he think he is,
making a mess of my restaurant?
Are you all right?
Miburo?
I see. I had no idea they had
children like you in their ranks.
This may be fate.
What was that about?
Taro! Shut that door, too!
Hurry!
Huh? You're not the boss of me!
He's still sitting out there!
What did you say?
Excuse me. What's your name?
Kikuchiyo.
Who are you? Who is that guy?
Why is he after you?
Now, let the festivities begin.
Kikuchiyo-san.
What are you clamming up for?
Tell us already! What are you, slow?
Please, Kikuchiyo-san. I'd like to
get through this situation somehow.
So please, tell us what you know.
It happened suddenly.
On the street in broad daylight.
He came at me head-on.
My attendants fought back,
but it devolved into a brawl.
I fled for my life and took refuge
in this dango restaurant.
He attacked you in public?
Who is he?
He's crazy. What more do you need to know?
We can't talk it out with a nutcase.
I wonder how those I left behind fared.
Do you know who he is?
No, I have no idea.
But I can think of any number of reasons
why someone might want me dead.
What?
Why?
Wh-What kind of crap did you pull?
Stay out!
What's going on? Let us in!
Stop horsing around.
What game are we playing?
Tell us if you're gonna stay over.
We were worried about you.
Hijikata-san. Okita-san. And Todo-san, too.
My!
It's been too long, ma'am.
You haven't gotten any less handsome.
Seems a little early in the day
to close up shop.
Just shut the door already.
Some wacko in white
is sitting right outside.
Really?
I don't see anyone.
Huh? Where'd he go?
I didn't see anyone wearing white,
but some shady characters are
keeping an eye on this place.
So he's not alone?
Six in total, I think.
I could tell at a glance that
they knew their business.
Make that seven. I spotted one around back.
We noticed them on the way in,
but we couldn't just rush them, you know?
So would you care to fill us in?
I get the feeling
something fun is going on here.
Oh, this is Kikuchiyo-san.
The scary man in white
attacked him out of the blue.
"Scary"? What was he like?
He had a sword this long!
And he tried to swing it one-handed!
What? This thing?
How would you even swing it?
Whoa. That's gotta be six shaku long.
Kikuchiyo.
What's bothering you, Hijikata-san?
Well, I've never seen the man myself,
but I've heard that was his childhood name.
Wh-What do you mean?
Could you be...
Shogun Tokugawa Iemochi?
Th-The Shogun?!
Wh-What about the Shogun?
The Shogun's the Shogun,
genius. Japan's top dog.
I wouldn't say that.
I am the Seii Taishogun, charged to govern
by command of His Imperial Majesty.
Tokugawa or no, I'm the lord
of a domain like any other.
Um, I see.
Then, you're really him?
You're Lord Tokugawa Iemochi,
currently visiting Kyoto?
Indeed.
What?!
For real?! The biggest of big shots?!
But why? You should be in Nijo Castle!
Are you kidding me?
I... I figured that was it!
Mr. Top Dog, sir, I'm yours to the bitter end.
Your wish is my command.
Wow, talk about street smarts.
He changed his tune quick.
He sure knows how to get by.
No, pretty sure he sucks at it.
So what do we do now?
Doesn't this just make things worse?
Good point. Time is of the essence.
True. The way things are now,
loads of people want the Shogun dead.
L-Let's call more Miburo.
One of us should run for help.
If we can get out of here.
We'll be done for if they strike first.
We're closer to Nijo Castle here.
We could walk there in under an hour.
We'd never make it.
The answer is obvious.
We'll escort the Shogun to the safety of
Nijo Castle with only the forces we have here.
That's the only way.
But I can't put you all at risk.
Don't worry.
We Miburo only came from Edo
in the first place to guard you.
Now, let's talk specifics.
We ought to wait for evening.
I have an idea.
A child? I hardly think—
Good. Let's hear it.
Here's the plan.
First, we split into two groups...
Right. It's time. I hope you're ready.
Yes, sir.
Failure is not an option.
Be ready for anything.
I'm all fired up.
Oh, please, please let us
make it in one piece.
Conquer
Ma'am, I beg your pardon.
I've brought my troubles
to your establishment.
Hmph. I don't like you.
G-Granny, that's the Shogun!
I don't care if he's the Shogun
or the Emperor himself.
Wrong is wrong.
You didn't lift a finger
to save yourself from that attack.
Anyone would think you were waiting to die.
Conquer
The people on top shouldn't be careless with
their lives. It makes trouble for us lowly folk.
And leave commoners to commoners.
Conquer
That's not your lookout.
You're a lord, so do a lord's work.
We've all got our own stations
to stand our ground in.
That's what work's all about.
Look smart, Shogun!
Thank you.
Japan has been cursed with
a youth like me for a shogun.
Way to go, Granny.
But maybe I'm blessed...
You scared me, Granny!
I'm always putting my life on the line.
to have subjects like these.
Lights.
Here they come.
Take Iemochi's head.
Will I survive?
Let's move.
There they are.
It's Iemochi.
Huh? They split up.
Which way did Iemochi go?
Don't let anyone escape! After them!
There they go.
I see. Quite the stratagem.
But will they be safe? I wouldn't
want them to die in my place.
Oh, no need to worry about that.
They're as tough as demons.
I'm the Shogun!
The Shogun! The Shogun!
Quiet, you old bat.
Well played, Heisuke.
I love the courtly laugh.
Run for it!
We'll count to 30, then take
the backstreets to Nijo Castle.
Right.
Well, now. What have we here?
H-How did he know?
So both groups were decoys?
The numbers added up, though.
Oh, I get it. The old woman.
You planned to sneak Iemochi out after
we'd left and the hubbub had died down.
Interesting. You thought this through.
Luck really wasn't on your side.
You see...
I only came back for this.
This couldn't be worse.
It was all for nothing.
Get going.
I'll give you to the count of 10.
He's toying with us. This is a hunt to him.
Kikuchiyo-san!
Let's go.
One.
Two.
Three.
Go on. Run.
Where are we going?
Are we making for Nijo Castle?
With a slight detour.
We need to lose that guy first.
Right.
Down here.
We'll slip through here.
My, I'm impressed you
know such narrow alleys.
I was born in this city.
Must be your backyard.
Let's hide here and watch for a bit.
No! I'm dead tired!
Call a palanquin, I say!
Please be reasonable.
What are you doing?
I doubt I can take him in a fair fight,
so I hope this will come in handy.
I'm a passable swordsman myself,
but I don't fancy my odds, either.
Excuse me, Kikuchiyo-san...
Oh, I mean, my lord Shogun.
"Kikuchiyo" will do.
Kikuchiyo-san, why did you leave Nijo Castle
when people are out to get you?
Did you have important business?
My people were reluctant to let me go.
I suppose the outcome has proven them right.
A horse? What's it doing here?
There, there. So you made it.
W-Were you riding this horse, by any chance?
I was.
You must have been terrified.
What's wrong? Do horses frighten you?
N-No, they just make quite
an impression up close.
To be frank, I'd rather spend
my life caring for birds and fish.
Huh?
I never expected to become shogun.
Can I do my duty? It doesn't feel real.
I wanted to see people like yourselves.
Commoners, to be blunt.
I wanted to see what sort of people
I rule over and have a duty to protect.
Can you wait here?
I'll send someone for you soon.
Um...
I heard you came from Edo to promise the
Emperor that you'll drive out the foreigners.
That's right.
At least, that's what my entourage thinks.
What? Do you have other ideas, then?
I cannot expel the barbarians.
What?
Y-You can't?
I cannot.
I-I'm sorry. I just...
The ports are already open.
I cannot drive out the foreigners there
and bar any more from entering.
If I close off our land, the world
will only pull further ahead of us.
We haven't a moment more to waste.
What should we do, then?
I don't know.
Won't opening up the country be disastrous?
I heard we'd be occupied or
flooded with awful drugs.
The country will open up,
but I won't let the foreigners
have it all their own way.
We must all think of how to stop them.
The time has come to pool our wisdom.
At least, that's how it seems to me.
I only hope I can convince
our land to work in concert.
Not everyone will prove receptive.
Japan may split between anti-barbarian
and pro-trade factions,
although those aren't mutually exclusive.
But I believe there are steps only a
powerless, incompetent shogun can take.
I won't let it come to civil war.
Not while I live and breathe.
Some may wish me dead...
but my duty remains.
Kikuchiyo-san.
But, oh, how I hate it!
I wish I could just frolic with my horses.
Being slashed or stabbed must hurt.
I want no part of it.
I'm exhausted. I don't want to walk.
Will you ride back, then?
No. Never.
I can't handle the reins with
my left hand in this state.
What if I injure the horse?
You're worried about the horse?
Well, of course I am.
Kikuchiyo-san.
Don't worry.
We Miburo...
will keep you safe.
Yes. I'm depending on it.
The
Weakest
Shogun
Next time
Okita Soji here.
Man, I never thought I'd meet the Shogun,
much less save him
from some tough customers.
It seems like so much fun.
This really was worth leaving Edo for.
Maybe I ought to break out
my specialty. It's been a while.
Next time: "True Strength."
You won't want to miss it.
True Strength